


Camwire - a generic camera interface
====================================


Home page: http://kauri.auck.irl.cri.nz/~johanns/camwire/


Camwire is a generic digital camera library for Linux.  It defines a set
of C functions that provides the basic functionality needed to control
some digital cameras from a computer.


Supported cameras

So far Camwire has been implementated for the IEEE 1394 bus and
OHCI-compatible hosts.  (Other names for IEEE 1394 are Firewire and
iLink.)  It supports cameras that conform to the IIDC DCAM
specifications
(http://www.1394ta.org/Technology/Specifications/index.htm).  To find
cameras that conform, or to check if yours conforms, Damien Douxchamps
maintains the excellent IEEE1394 Digital Camera List
(http://www.tele.ucl.ac.be/PEOPLE/DOUXCHAMPS/ieee1394/cameras/).

Note that the digital cameras mentioned here are not digital video (DV,
camcorder) cameras, they are usually industrial or scientific cameras
without image compression.


Use

Camwire is primarily intended for C programmers who would like to work
at a higher level of abstraction than the low-level camera libraries and
drivers.  If you need a pre-made GUI interface, something like Coriander
might be better
(http://www.tele.ucl.ac.be/PEOPLE/DOUXCHAMPS/ieee1394/coriander/).

The basic functionality supported by Camwire includes:

  * Run/stop camera
  * Single-shot/continuous mode
  * Trigger source internal/external
  * External trigger polarity rising/falling
  * Frame rate
  * Shutter speed
  * Frame dimensions width/height
  * Frame offset left/top
  * Pixel colour coding
  * Capture a frame by waiting/polling/copying
  * Get time stamp of last frame
  * Get serial number of last frame
  * Get/set/flush frame buffers

The C functions form an interface which is implementation-independent in
the sense that it does not know or care whether the camera is on an IEEE
1394 (Firewire, iLink), USB, CameraLink, or whatever bus.  The header
files camwirebus.h and camwire.h declare the functions that form the
Camwire interface.  The headers also contain all the documentation you
are likely to need.


Example code

There is an extended example of how to use Camwire in the examples
subdirectory of the distribution, called cammonitor.  It implements a
complete command-line-based camera monitor.  It even has a man page.


System requirements

Camwire uses the libdc1394 digital camera library
(http://sourceforge.net/projects/libdc1394).  You will therefore have to
have libdc1394 installed on your platform, as well as the supporting
libraries and drivers libraw1394, raw1394, ieee1394, video1394, and
ohci1394.  The IEEE 1394 for Linux site has good documentation of these
(http://www.linux1394.org/).

The cammonitor example needs SDL (http://www.libsdl.org/index.php) and
Xv (http://www.xfree86.org/4.2.1/Xv.3.html) to display images on the
screen.  These are commonly included in Linux distributions.

The current minimum system requirments for Camwire is kernel 2.4.22 and
libdc1394 version 0.9.5 CVS after 11 August 2004.  Apologies to those
with earlier versions.  Kernel support for IEEE 1394 and libdc1394 have
been evolving fast over the last few months and only the latest versions
support the basic functionality needed by Camwire.


Licence

Camwire is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (short
LGPL, see file COPYING in the source distribution).  Other files in the
source distribution not belonging to but being part of the build
procedure of Camwire are under their own licenses, as stated at the top
of the individual files.


Installation

The Camwire distribution does not (yet) include binaries or even the
usual configure packaging.  You will have to compile it yourself.  A
sample Makefile is provided for use at your own risk.  See
the INSTALL file for more help.


Development

Please send suggestions, bug reports and fixes to me (email: my first
initial dot my surname at irl dot cri dot nz).  Developers are invited
to extend Camwire to other buses like USB and CameraLink.  If that
happens we may decide to put the project on Sourceforge.


2004-10-27  Johann Schoonees
Industrial Research Limited, PO Box 2225, Auckland, New Zealand

$Id: README_camwire,v 7.0 2005/02/18 02:04:10 johanns Exp $
